let's bring in M Bashar Al senior
political analyst as we said to our
correspondents a day to remember but
also want to ponder about the future I
mean the Naka has historical meaning
right now but even that historical
meaning is changing with
time it is to some to some degree but
I've actually always wondered why do the
Palestinians commemorate the nakba since
it's an
ongoing process the catastrophe didn't
happen in a day or in a year it has
continued over 75 years nonstop and none
of the issues none of the underlining
issues that made it a catastrophe back
in 1947 49 have changed refugees are
still refugees dispossession is still
dispossession occupation increased over
the years repression and racism
increased over the years Israel's
Supremacy and the supremacy of Zionism
in the land of Palestine having
increased over the years so it's been 75
years of continued
catastrophe
topped this year and last year of this
what they called even the Israelis
themselves as you've reported earlier
calling it the new nakba the neba of
Gaza which really goes a long way to
tell you um that uh what we've seen back
75 years ago and continues today
requires a solution the solution that is
not being provided and why does it
require a solution say unlike you know
when we comate I don't know first first
world war or the Holocaust or what have
you right it's an event that happened at
one point in time more or less but here
this requires a solution it requires a a
historical context in the sense that and
I've heard some of your discussion with
your previous guests is it worse is it
better and you know better not better
but is it worse you know comparing the
incomparable Horrors that happened to
the Palestinians there is something to
be said about that what happened in 1947
49 was a major disaster for the
Palestinians because most of them were
displaced this time around Israel is
unable to displace Palestinians outside
Gaza except a number of them that
decided that just need could not
tolerate any more or they were killed or
or or or or sick or or what have you
right so we are stuck and Israel is
stuck today with more than 7 and A5
million Palestinians living in historic
Palestine so the project of displacing
of ethnic cleansing the Palestinians has
basically failed and that's definitely
important to recall and you say it needs
reform it needs to be answered it needs
to be dealt with we've got the the the
world economic Forum happening in Doha
right now and there are statements
coming out of it certainly from the
Saudis about the fact it says without a
real political pathway it' be very
difficult for Arab countries to discuss
how we are to govern I.E lower the
temperature make sure there's a
two-state solution and be behind the
Palestinians I mean this is a
conversation happening between Saudi
Qatar the United Arab Emirates and Egypt
how important is it that these countries
are you might say standing up or
standing together in this forum not just
in Doha but generally globally it's
important to a certain degree that at
least in terms of their declaration the
Arab regime seem to be in agreement that
what's going on today 7 months later is
horrible it's a a genocide of some sort
but just as they were divided in 1947
1949 just as they were impotent in 1974
1979 1947
1949 they are as impotent and as divided
today and incapable of stopping a
genocide that's taking place if this
genocide was taking place as it were for
example you know in Bosnia and and other
places the Europeans intervene and there
were a number of war criminals from
Serbia taken to the hag but in our
region in this region Arab leaders are
incapable of taking care of uh or or
preventing or stopping a genocide that's
unraveling in PL side the only people
who are capable and have been more
capable than before of doing something
about it are the Palestinians and this
is the central point here because if the
Palestinians did not stand up for their
rights I don't think the Arabs would the
Arab regimes would have over the past in
fact pistan was going to become a Kama
right a semicolon in this region if the
Arab regimes and nany would have had it
their way now after October 7 things
have changed there's no doubt what's
really most important to understand is
that while the Palestinians have been
pummeled while they have been beaten
again and again and
again why Israel has won one war after
another War at least until
1967 right Israel might have won but the
Palestinians have never lost they have
never recognize their loss in terms of
strategic loss to Israel so until today
75 years they are still struggling they
are still fighting they are still
steadfast if the Palestinians wouldn't
lose Israel cannot
win and if we just develop this a little
bit more you know we talk about we
talked only just last week about this
whole American armed shipment being
paused or not um it reminds me of the
phrase because we're hearing now that
this arm shipment is going ahead of the
Native American Indians who would often
say you know white men speak with fork
tongue yeah and now we have this
scenario where one minute it's a pause
one minute we're sending arms to
Israel it it's all about the USA and
whether you can actually trust what they
say this is the thing that uh our
correspondent Kimberly out of Washington
said about how the atmosphere in
Washington is Biden trying to walk a
fine line a thin line trying to balance
between uh freezing uh am ammunition
shipments and at the same time selling
Israel new weapons which is kind of a
contradiction in term right in the one
hand you say I'm not going to send the
the ammunition but I'm going to sell
more a billion dollars of new weapons to
Israel now you could say that as Biden
put it well this is used for ra other
ones used to defend Israel it's a bit of
a fine line right between both but as
you stated earlier I think I heard you
in one of your interviews it's like that
like the West stood with Israel back in
1948 it's standing with Israel today but
there's a big difference in 1948 the
West was still trying to cover up its
complicity or role or whatever in the
Holocaust and Israel was basically came
out of the ashes of the Holocaust only a
few years later for the past 75 years
there was no Holocaust if any if
anything it's the Palestinians that have
paid the real price of the
Holocaust 75 years later the West cannot
say I am complicit for because of the
Holocaust so they try to manufacture
this whole humbug of
anti-Semitism there is no issue more F
in the west than anti-Semitism
anti-Semitism is banned in the west so
to provoke or to invoke the question of
anti-Semitism in order to be implicit or
complicit in supporting Israel that's a
sham and we'll leave it there for now
but continue to follow what happens as
well thanks very much for your analysis
bashara there our senior political
analyst make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer